To Those Whom It May Concern:

I am an engineer who studied Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at UC Berkeley. I believe that my education, work and personal experience is a fit of this Application Engineer position.


Since middle school, I have maintained an interest in hardware engineering as a personal hobby, repairing home electronics and building new devices at home with AVR microcontrollers, op-amps and power FETs. Envisioning a career in electronic product development and robotics, I applied to UC Berkeley and was awarded a full scholarship to their EE/CS program, where I took several courses in circuit engineering. These included project-based courses where I designed schematics and PCBs in EagleCAD, simulated them in Spice, ordered parts, soldered them, and debugged them with oscilloscopes and other lab tools; designed and simulated logic circuits for FPGAs using Verilog; and programmed and simulated robot movements over complex terrain. I took off a year in the middle of college to work as an Industrial Electrical Controls Engineer for Bridgestone, where I used AutoCAD for laying out circuits and control panels and specified electrical components.

Upon finishing at UC Berkeley, I searched for hardware design and robotics jobs, but I found that more consistent employment with better pay could be found in pure software. So I put my dreams as an electronics engineer on hold, and I built complex web applications and microservice systems that consumed input and emitted output from each other, similar to blocks on electrical schematics for digital circuits. There were feedback loops in these software systems as well, which my electronics training allowed me to recognize and control, unlike my software-only colleagues. Concurrent and parallel computations were also easier for me to reason about, because that is how circuits work - everything is happening at the same time, and race conditions must be anticipated and accounted for in the design.

Recently I branched out to 3D printing, learning Fusion 360, FreeCAD, and Blender for 3D modeling, where tolerances are a constant design element. I designed and printed a replacement bracket for my freezer door, an interlocking cable guide for my VESA monitor arm, an OC spray cover, and an iPad case. The free tools I used are less powerful than SolidWorks. However, I have seen from my software dev experience that I am a flexible and fast learner. The similarities from these free tools and my AutoCAD Electrical experience from Bridgestone should give me a boost in picking up Solidworks very quickly. The different controls for similar operations are no more difficult to me than picking up a new programming language, which I do very frequently.

Given my background in electronics, FPGAs, PCBs, 3D printing and industrial controls engineer experience, and the flexibility and systems engineering experience from my software career, I think I am a strong candidate who can provide fresh perspectives as an Application Engineer at Essai.

Thank you,
Chaim Halbert
